# Encryption-decryption-app

We will be building an Android Application that can Encrypt and Decrypt a 
message using the Encoding and Decoding algorithm i.e., using AES algorithm
respectively. The app’s homepage will the user two option:
1. Encryption: It is the process of transforming a readable message into an 
unreadable one. To do so we use encoding algorithms.
2. Decryption: It is the process of transforming data or information from an 
unreadable to readable form. To do so we use decoding algorithms.

This app aims at providing secure transfer of data using secret key such that 
only the intended or authorized person will be able to decrypt and view the 
encrypted data.
Our application uses AES algorithm, which is a symmetric cryptographic 
technique.
The encrypted text can be decoded only by using the secret key generated by 
the algorithm. The text is encrypted and decrypted using the same secret key.
The secret key must be shared to the receiver if he wants to decrypt the text.

The purpose of the encrypt decrypt application is to allow users be able send 
data securely, that is, sending secret messages securely. The users will be able to
send data securely and be sure that it is sent to the correct user and the receiver 
has decoded it correctly. The encrypt decrypt application will be written in java, 
but due to the lack of experience in java, while developing the application,
practicing techniques with java and working on it as much as possible will help 
hone some java skills and be more ready to develop the application. For the scope 
of the project, the project will be tested as the program is being developed. A
encrypt/decrypt interface will be developed and tested, and GUI’s will be 
developed and tested, for the users’ benefits. When the encrypt decrypt
application is near completion, more testing will be done in order to make it less 
buggy or more user friendly.

## Problem Statement


The project aims to provide the correct data with security to the users. For 
some of the users the data might be lost during the transmission process in the 
network and for some, the data might be changed by the unauthorized person in 
the network and there are some other security problems in the network. Only 
Authorized persons i.e., who are using our application will be able to decrypt the 
data and view the data.
